Dear believers, today in the Gospel
we will start reflecting from the
last sentence: "Whoever is not with
me is against me, and whoever does
not gather with me scatters." This
sentence immediately highlights an
important point: we cannot be neutral.
Jesus demands a definitive commitment.
Either you are with God or you are not.
So, you can't be wishy-washy.
That's why it says, whoever
is not with me is against me.
If you are with Jesus,
you are his follower.
Because if you can do good
deeds and you don't, you are
automatically against Jesus.
And that's important today because
believers today like to calculate.
They like to be a believer in the
morning and then cooperate with
Satan in the evening, and so on.
So we see among you, the youth, research
shows, especially in America, that
there is increasing interest in whom?
In Satan.
So today, Jesus performs a double miracle.
He casts out Satan,
performing an exorcism.
In this exorcism, not only did
he free this man who was mute,
but he also made him speak.
Now I ask you, how many people today
truly believe in this spiritual
world of possession and evil?
Very few.
But on the other hand, how does
possession occur, how do such things
happen that someone becomes possessed?
It's precisely what I mentioned.
There is a great, let's say, a great
interest in Satan, in his power, in
his miracles, and in everything he
offers among a certain group of people.
For others, they end up in the bondage
of evil because they deny that it
exists at all, that it doesn't exist.
And then you will often find in some
biblical commentaries and explanations
that Jesus never actually performed
exorcisms, but only healings.
However, if you carefully read
the Gospels, you will see that
there are more than 40 healings.
There are more than 40 healings
but also two exorcisms.
So how can we distinguish between them?
So when Jesus, make room to bring it
out because if it's maybe a call or
something, don't close the entrances.
So if it's a matter of exorcism,
what we can see in the Gospel as
well as today, Jesus doesn't take
oil to anoint the sick to heal them.
Jesus doesn't touch those He intended
to heal and cure, then He works in
that way by physically touching them.
He makes a gesture or
uses oil or something.
However, in exorcism, we see
Jesus expelling demons solely
with His authority and word.
So, that's the real thing when He
says the Kingdom of God has come.
And now if we today... If we have such
faith, we haven't even decided for
sure what we're really interested in.
We're a bit intrigued by Jesus, His
power, exorcisms, and those topics.
On the other hand, so many believers
today, including some preachers,
only talk about Satan, his
power, and other related topics.
We sometimes become a bit confused.
That's why Jesus says today, "Whoever
is not with me is against me." You
can't say you are with Jesus and deny
that people have problems with demons,
that people have problems with Satan.
There is never a time when Satan,
the Devil, Lucifer, is not at work.
It's so absurd.
Because if you deny that, you
deny the very reason Jesus came.
And here in today's Gospel, we hear
about... The Pharisees are astonished,
meaning the Pharisees knew everything,
they were present at some of the
exorcisms Jesus performed, and
it was hard for them to admit it.
And what did they say?
Maybe you are doing this with the help
of Beelzebub, the prince of demons.
See what human pride is, see
what jealousy and vanity are.
Even today, people who practice
exorcism—thank God there are exorcists
and people who help others—will
often be mocked and told, "Well,
those are all just mentally ill
people, there's nothing to it."
And then we won't do that, so are you for
Jesus, have you decided, have you read
the Gospel, what does the Gospel say?
You see, it would be great if the truth
is what the Pharisees want to tell Jesus
today in the Gospel, that the kingdom
of Satan is divided within itself.
So imagine if Jesus really did that with
the help of Beelzebub, then that's top.
Because it says only a stronger
one can defeat the strong one.
That would mean that Jesus defeated
Satan, entered his kingdom,
caused division, and took control.
However, that's not the case.
And the Pharisees, simply out of
jealousy, couldn't accept the way
Jesus cast out demons with his word,
in other words, performed exorcisms.
And the witnesses likely saw
manifestations in those individuals.
They surely saw these people displaying
some strange signs—physical ones,
changes in voice, smell—and yet they
still said, "No, no, no, no, no. You
are doing this with the help of this."
I tell you, today, very few Christians
and those who talk about Jesus believe
that Satan, Lucifer, and the one who
continues to deceive people still exist.
Nowadays, it's especially easy
for him because with the kind of
faith we have and the way we speak,
wanting to relativize everything, he
doesn't have to struggle much at all.
And another interesting question
that Jesus poses to them, the
Pharisees who do not believe in
the exorcism they just witnessed.
Jesus says, well, if I do this by
Beelzebub, how did your ancestors,
how in the Old Testament, how did you
Jews, how did you help people, how did
you perform exorcisms in your time?
If I do it this way, by whom
do they perform such signs?
Because Jesus knows everything.
And what is Jesus alluding to here?
Do you perhaps know of any example
of exorcism in the Old Testament?
Here, we are listening
about Jesus' miracles.
There is one.
So if you have ever read
the book of Tobit, read the
third chapter, eighth verse.
So, what is it about?
So, if we talk about the spiritual world,
there are different kinds of demons.
I won't go into detail about
all of them and their missions.
Each demon has its own mission.
However, in the Book of Tobit, we can
find the name of a demon called Asmodeus.
Asmodeus.
The story is about Tobias needing
to marry Sarah, but Sarah had
several husbands before him.
And each husband would die before
the marriage could be consummated.
So here we are talking about an
influential demon, a demon of
lust and a demon of jealousy.
He was so jealous of Sara that every
man who approached her ended up dead.
I'm not talking about oppression.
I'm talking about seven
husbands who died in that way.
And Rafael helps Tobi to marry Sara.
However, Tobi is afraid.
If he knows that seven husbands
before him died as soon as they
married her because of that demon.
And the angel, Raphael, advises
Tobit... How to perform an exorcism?
How to protect himself
and how to be saved?
And he says in the sixth chapter, verse
15, "I am afraid that if I go to her, I
will die like those before me, because
she is loved by a demon who harms no
one except those who approach her." If
you research a bit more about that demon
Asmodeus, you will see that he has much
more influence, especially related to the
sins of lust and jealousy, but there are
many others who each have their own role.
However, what happens next?
If you look at it in this spiritual
context, there is a demon tax for all the
demons that exist, each having its role.
So, there is this demon
Asmodeus who attacks the family.
Therefore, against every demon,
there is an angel who fights.
And that is why Raphael advises
Tobias here, and in translation,
his name means God's Medicine.
So, God's Medicine.
And you see, he further
tells him what to do.
And you will find there how
Raphael advises what to do.
To approach Sarah, to burn some
incense, and before they consummate
their marriage, to pray together.
And in this way, the demon
Asmodeus, who had already killed
her seven husbands, will leave.
What do we see here?
We are talking about exorcism
in the Old Testament.
And what advice did the
Angel Raphael give them?
Fasting and prayer.
So why are you surprised that spiritual
problems prevail in our families?
Intolerance and discord.
Why are some marriages a living hell?
It doesn't always mean that this demon
is attacking the family, but it's good
to know that there is a demon whose
role is to literally attack the family.
And now look, you have families,
especially married couples,
who don't function well.
Constant intolerance, constant
fighting, constant jealousy.
It could be that one day you woke
up on the wrong side of the bed
and you're irritable and tired.
But how do constant fights break
out over unnecessary things?
How many of you complain to us priests in
confession about such a crisis and such
a spiritual atmosphere in your family?
Conflict with children, disrespect,
cursing, and... This demon is typically
more associated with women, but it
also suggestively influences men.
It suggestively influences men as well.
It even has the power to create
obstacles to prevent something
dear from being achieved.
Please, I just want to let you know that
something spiritual like this exists.
You don't have to immediately demonize
everything and scrutinize your marriage,
attributing everything to a demon.
Of course, many times we are responsible
ourselves, but if you were to look,
besides this demon, there are four more.
I won't explain who they are or
what they do now, but they are all
very active and very successful.
If you look at this demon that
attacked the marriage described by
Tobit, how did they drive it out?
How did they get rid of it?
Prayer.
So, what problem does a demon
have today in destroying a
marriage where there is no prayer?
As I said at the beginning of
the sermon, he doesn't need to do
much work when he finds an open
field because you are unprotected.
But, for those of you who feel it,
don't send me messages tomorrow saying
you heard in the sermon about this
demon and saw it in your marriage.
We can have a conversation.
No, you can't.
Turn to prayer.
Why am I saying this?
Let me ask you.
If this church were to catch
fire right now, burning, would
you all start asking questions?
Is it the outlet or the cable?
Why did it catch fire?
Would someone start
coming to the gas stove?
No, you don't ask such questions.
When you see a fire, you go
and immediately put it out.
You don't ask how the fire started,
what the value of this church is if
it burns down, what will happen to the
instruments, what will happen to the
altar, where will the sermons be given
from, you don't ask such questions.
And why did I say that so no one
thinks I'm arrogant, that you
don't reach out for a conversation?
Because, my dear ones, the
devil has deceived you a little.
When you see a problem in your marriage,
in your family, in your personal life,
don't ask where the evil comes from.
How powerful is Satan?
He is really destroying my marriage.
This is how priests function today.
Undecided.
So, this is a time of struggle.
You see that something is
burning in your marriage.
Your house is burning,
your marriage is burning.
You go and put out the fire,
you don't ask questions.
But many like to come and just
ask questions, talk about Satan.
And I just said a moment ago, there's no
time to talk about Satan, nor should we.
Instead, put out the fire.
This is a time of struggle.
And God has given us grace, given us
the means to extinguish such situations.
So that the devil flees, if I interpreted
this correctly, read the Book of Tobit
again to see how they saved and protected
their marriage—they lit incense and
started praying, and the demon left.
Don't talk too much about what that
demon is doing in your family, how
your husband or wife is unbearable,
intolerant, nervous, and so on.
Start praying.
No priest or conversation will help
you if you don't start praying.
And how many marriages, if you look at the
statistics, even in Croatia, even on our
continent, how many people this demon has
managed to incite to destroy marriages,
and how many people are divorced.
I repeat, it's not always because of
demons, but I'm sure that families
where there is no prayer are much more
susceptible to such demonic influences,
because I say... It's not normal for
your partner to be constantly jealous,
constantly nervous, always provoking
you, always causing unrest in the house.
That's not normal.
And on the other hand, they'll tell
you in the evening, I love you.
Something's not right.
And that's why I say, we shouldn't
talk about demons, we should act.
Take action and pray.
We have the means and
we shouldn't be afraid.
If you start praying, it will disappear.
Evil will disappear.
So, first and foremost, we
have the sacraments as a means.
Confession is the best exorcism.
Because there, you speak the truth.
And that's where the
real battles are fought.
Look at those who are going
through marital crises, ask them—
I know many of you will message me
tomorrow, so I'm posing this question
in advance to save you a trip.
Seek help and ask your partner when was
the last time they went to confession.
It's a powerful exorcism because
there, we are all honest,
and the truth sets us free.
And let's not forget that every
demon, every Satan, and the devil
himself is the father of lies.
And everything that is a lie,
everything that is twisted,
means you are under influence.
When you go sincerely and confess, then
Satan has no influence on your marriage.
As long as you persistently reject
the sacraments in your marriage or any
family relationship, you will not defeat
Satan, nor will you easily find peace.
You won't.
The first thing is the sacraments.
At baptism, do the godparents and
others ask, "Do you renounce Satan?"
Don't we say the same at confirmation?
And when we renew our faith, don't we
again confess that we renounce Satan?
This is important.
Renounce sin, its
seductions, renounce Satan.
That's why I say, if you want to mend
interpersonal relationships, marriages,
and so on, start by cleansing the heart
of sin, and blessings will follow.
Demons will all leave.
You don't need to talk about their power.
Another thing, blessed items
are a form of protection.
How will the demon leave your house
when you barely bought a small cross
and put it somewhere behind a book so
no one can see it, are you ashamed?
No, take the cross, put it in the house
so that anyone who enters can see it,
and both Satan and the enemy will flee.
And when I have a house blessing, I
can't even find where the cross is with
all my glasses, man, for God's sake.
And today, if possible, it should be some
modern one without Jesus on it, just a
bit of shiny glass to make it trendy.
Put up a normal cross with Jesus
on it, and let everyone see it.
If someone can't stand your cross,
they don't need to be in your house;
drive them away with that cross.
In serious exorcisms, when you place
a cross on someone's forehead or body,
they scream and say it burns them.
So if someone is bothered by the sight
of your cross, we have a situation
where we are removing crosses from
our institutions and everything.
Who is bothered by the cross?
Who is burned by the cross?
Who?
So, let's be believers, people.
I say, in the sacraments, we
have means, other blessed things.
The first is the cross,
blessed water, exorcised salt.
But I must warn you, many of
you are using them magically.
You take blessed water and salt,
then you put it in your husband's
dinner, breakfast, in everything, as
if magically, thinking the evil will
disappear, but you have no faith at all.
Cooking beans in blessed water won't
free you just because you drink
blessed water and lick blessed salt.
It will help you, but
only if you have faith.
I must warn you, especially you older
believers, please don't do it like magic.
Blessed salt, blessed water, the
cross—these can help, but if you
don't have faith, it won't do much.
You can wear ten medals around your neck,
but without faith, it won't help you.
You can put a rosary in your
car for protection, but without
faith and a personal relationship
with God, it won't help.
That's why I say, use these things, they
are a means in the sacraments, but not to
be magic where I sprinkle a little salt
and water but don't go to Mass on Sunday.
It won't help you.
First, you go to Mass, and
then you bless your space, car,
cat, and everything you have.
Please, first the sacraments.
I encourage you, and I feel that
sometimes we overdo it with these things.
Highlighting evil, highlighting the
disorder in our lives, all the chaos,
putting too much emphasis on that,
where is Jesus in the whole story?
Look, today in the Gospel,
with one word, Satan flees.
Let's return to Jesus so
that Jesus is in our hearts.
Satan will flee from us.
And don't be afraid of losing
so-called friends and acquaintances.
If you have Jesus in your heart, you
will lose half the people you know.
Thank God.
A natural exorcism.
They flee from you like the devil.
But I ask individuals, even some of
you whom I know, how is it that you
are a magnet for negative people
instead of them running away from you?
Good question, right?
As believers, how is it that you, as
a believer who carries Jesus, instead
of those negative people—what we
would call naughty children—running
away from you, you attract them?
You gather them and want change.
You want to have contact with all of them.
You want to have those
people in every sphere.
It doesn't work.
If any of you here are like that, the
environment, the people around you, the
ambiance, all of that is very important.
It's all spiritual space.
I call it spiritual ecology.
It's not the same where you are.
In places with a high concentration
of sin, the atmosphere is different.
How then can someone who is a believer
enjoy and be in that environment?
How can you be with people who
you know are great sinners, who
curse constantly, who bring curses
upon you and that spiritual space
every time they open their mouths?
If you want to keep in contact with
such people, it only means that your
heart might be poisoned as well.
If you have people around you who
constantly speak ill of others
and you keep associating with
them, it will poison you too.
Do you understand the
term spiritual ecology?
How many times has it been said about
those who curse, that if you constantly
listen to it, you will start cursing too.
Because it's contagious.
And you need to act on that.
So, if you belong to Christ, as
I started this sermon, whoever
is not with me is against me.
Today is a time for commitment.
Are you with Jesus, in Jesus, or not?
You can't make compromises.
Those who come to church occasionally
but keep in touch with the whole world,
living like everyone else, I'm not
judging or calling anyone out here.
I'm just stating the facts and what
is true in the spiritual world.
That's how it is.
You can't have peace and not be influenced
by the devil and demons if you're
surrounded by people who drag them along.
It's not the same.
You young people think we're old-fashioned
and stupid when we talk to you about
clubs, but no, you need to know
where you should and shouldn't go.
Choose wisely where you go.
It's not the same as entering
some dark hole, where there's
all sorts of dark spirits.
It's not about the
people, but the spirits.
I only mentioned one spirit here that the
Bible talks about and how it influences.
If I were to explain all the
others, I think you wouldn't
even go to the post office.
We don't see them physically,
but we feel them spiritually.
And now someone listening to this
might say, "There they go again,
scaring us with devils and other
things." I'm just telling you.
Do you feel clean?
There are places where, when I go
out, I don't feel spiritually clean.
And I believe you can feel that too.
And that's it, that spiritual world.
I repeat, there's nothing to be afraid of.
As Jesus says and as we saw in the
exorcism in Tobit's book, everything can
be done through prayer and the sacraments.
Because Jesus gave us the
sacraments for that reason.
So we can resist the influence of
Satan and talk about the beauty and
power of Jesus Christ who changed
our lives, who opened our eyes.
Tell others how you found
peace, not how you lost it.
Tell others what Jesus brought
to you, how He drove out demons
from you, especially those that
may have oppressed you for years.
Testify a little for Jesus.
Speak the truth because
you will encourage someone.
We never talk about it, but
maybe many would seek help.
Maybe some would even
come to the Divine Mercy.
But as much as we share, that's why
I say, we always talk about Satan,
but let's talk a little about Jesus
and His power, and you'll see how
the atmosphere and mood change.
Amen.